hi my name is elizabeth i'm a medical
student
and an artist living in london and i
wanted to share my top tips for success
in medical school interviews for the
last two years i have been helping tens
of students prepare for their interviews
so i've been spending a significant
amount of time
thinking about the interview process
interviews have become something i'm
quite interested in so i thought i'd put
together some of my tips in the hope
that they might help you in your
preparation before i get started i just
wanted to say congratulations
for whatever stage in your application
process you
are in this video we'll touch upon three
main parts the first
is the structure the second is the
content and the third is the delivery
i would ask that you think of the
interviewer as an individual
someone with a limited attention span
who wants to go on their lunch break
who has probably watched five people
interview before you
and therefore you want to be very very
kind
to their patients and very very kind to
their attention
the way that you could do this is by
providing a very
good structure to your answer so the
better your structure
the more empowered that the interviewer
is the more they
know what to expect and what is going on
and what you are going to say next
the more likely they are to listen to
you and therefore
the better for your performance so i
would
make sure that i had a very strong
introduction before i say anything
and this applies to any sort of question
be it a question about you personally
about your suitability into medicine
this could be an ethical
question i would always always start it
by saying the things i'm going to
discuss
are firstly i'm going to touch upon x y
and z
these are things that empower the
listener so they're very very important
to your answer on top of that even as i
go through my answer
i will add small little pointers for
example i will say things like
now that i've finished discussing x i
will jump onto
my second point so you give them prompts
throughout the interview
that keeps your relationship with them
very very close and make sure that
they're not um falling asleep on you
now regarding content the first point is
something that i have definitely made
mistakes on in the past
and this is not answering the question
directly now it sometimes happens that
because the question is a bit unclear to
you
or something that you're perhaps not too
comfortable with or you don't
really know how to approach you might
slightly change it
and this may be intentional or it might
even be completely unintentional
so you change the question itself you
create a new question
which is hopefully quite similar to that
and you answer that
now this is not ideal because you are
not giving them exactly what they were
asking for
so you are highly unlikely to get full
marks on the station or to get full
marks regarding this point my advice
would be
to make sure that before i start
thinking or saying the answer out loud
that i'm actually answering exactly what
they wanted so i would identify
what the main point of their question is
first and make sure that my overall
conclusion
does address that now some questions may
seem
quite vague or you might genuinely not
understand them what i would recommend
in this case
is to ask the interviewer to repeat the
question perhaps or to clarify what they
mean exactly
before you start your answer my second
point regarding content is to make sure
that you are presenting
both sides of an argument this will make
you seem well-rounded
mature intelligent knowledgeable it
brings only
positive things to your answer
especially when it comes to ethical
questions or when it comes to
considerations about your behavior
or someone else's behavior or how you
feel about certain things
i would always always always bring both
sides of the argument into your
answer but there may be cases where you
fully disagree with the other side
you don't like the counter argument i
would say in this case it's more
valuable than ever
to mention it so one way to go about
doing this is to say that
although i strongly feel x i can see how
people
might see the situation in x-way i think
that if you're making a point in any
sort of ethical question
you should actively also try to find a
counter argument
and also present it in order for you to
seem more mature and balanced
my third point is to know the four
pillars of medical ethics
i'm not going to go into this in detail
because it's such a huge topic but
please
google them learn them know them they
are so so
so valuable apart from them being quite
big words they also provide you with
endless free content and things to talk
about when you might be blanking on the
spot under stress i genuinely found
these so useful in my interviews
when i was really stressed and i didn't
know what to think about i would just
think
oh autonomy how does this affect
patients autonomy so these are things i
would definitely
definitely include in a lot of my
answers my last point regarding content
is
perhaps one of the most important and
that is to always
always put the patient first if there is
any sort of question that involves a
patient or a potential patient
you need to consider how your actions or
someone else's actions
may be affecting this patient in
medicine the patient is the center of
our world so it needs to be the center
of your world
too already one key key phrase is
patients best interests and this is not
only regarding their physical health but
it's also regarding their mental health
or
their comfort or how they are feeling or
how they are being treated if there is
any mention of a patient that should
immediately
raise this flag how is this patient
being affected what will be in this
patient's best
interest now i'm moving on to delivery
my first point here is to be
enthusiastic no one should want this
more than you
you definitely want this more than the
interviewer and because they will be
bouncing off your energy most of the
time
it is very very important that you are
quite enthusiastic
and upbeat you need to be engaging and
keen
and it's very very important for your
face and eyes to read that i really
really want to be here i am so so so
keen on being in your university
please please have me this would be the
best thing in the world for me
this is the kind of vibe that you want
to be giving to the interviewer
so one way to achieve this is to smile
with your eyes and also to smile with
your lips and kind of talk through a
smile
of course um don't do this if you're
discussing a very serious situation
because
that that might be problematic
but for most of things it is quite
beneficial to be
very upbeat and happy and my last point
is to be modest rather than boastful
now this is a bit difficult to explain
without sounding too mean
you and both i are quite junior in the
stages of medical training
i would rather come across as someone
who says yeah i am very very keen to
learn i have taken up so many
opportunities but i would never frame
myself as something that i
am not yet because that might come off
as a bit
uninsightful i am aware that this was
quite abstract because i didn't use any
real questions and i do apologize for
that
i might consider making some other
videos where i go into things in a bit
more depth and show you some
good and bad examples of interview
questions so yeah let me know if that's
something that you are interested in
and as always thank you so much for
watching if you made it
to this part and be kind to yourself and
others and don't believe everything you
think
thank you bye